Q. 01. Difference between javascript and nodejs .

1. Ans:
i) JavaScript  Simple programming language
ii) It runs in any browser JavaScript Engine & We can only run JS on browsers.
iii) It used to create web scripts 
iv) The JS can easily add HTML and even play with the DOM.
v) it is used in the development of the front end.


i)  Node JS is an interpreter 
ii) It is running environment for JavaScript that holds many excesses &NodeJS helps us run JS outside the browser as well.
iii) It built on google's v8 engine.
iv) The Node.JS, on the other hand, isn’t capable enough to add various HTML tags.
v) it helps in the server-side development via the JS.


Q.02. When should you use nodejs and when should you use mongodb ?

Ans:
i) MongoDB used for Multi-Object Transactions
ii) MongoDB used for  SQL .
iii) It used for Strong ACID guarantees.
iv) MongoDB used for strong BI applications and those run against traditional SQL database
v) Lots of memory ,storage does not auto-shrink when you remove records.


i)  Node JS used for non-blocking 
ii) It used for event-driven servers.
iii) It's used for traditional web sites and back-end API services
iv) It's used for back-end API services
v) Used for providing serverless architecture and real-time communication support.



Q.03. Differences between sql and no sql databases.

Ans:
i) SQL is a query programming language
ii) SQL databases are vertically scalable .
iii)  SQL used to query and operate database systems.
iv) SQL databases are table-based,
v) SQL databases are better for multi-row transactions


i)  MySQL is a relational database 
ii) NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable..
iii) MySQL handle, store, modify and delete data and store data in an organized way
iv) NoSQL databases are document, key-value, graph, or wide-column stores.
v) oSQL is better for unstructured data like documents or JSON.



Q.04. What is the purpose of jwt and how does it work?

Ans:
JWT can be used as an access token to prevent unwanted access to a protected resource. They're often used as Bearer tokens, which the API will decode and validate before sending a response.. It is a mechanism to verify the owner of some JSON data. It's an encoded, URL-safe string that can contain an unlimited amount of data (unlike a cookie) and is cryptographically signed. When a server receives a JWT, it can guarantee the data it contains can be trusted because it's signed by the source.